-: Welcome back.
In this lecture, we are going to understand about
EKS cluster pricing from our learning perspective.
So which is nothing but,
if we create the cluster and then if we leave it,
then it is going to ball lot of money for us.
So very important thing about EKS pricing
is like EKS is not free
like many of the other AWS resources,
irrespective of if you have created our account in the,
and we are in the first year of our AWS account,
or it is an old AWS account.
So in short, no free tariff for EKS.
So EKS cluster pricing.
Cluster pricing is nothing but
the control plane pricing.
So we paid $0.10 per hour in us-east-1
North-Virginia region.
All these are related to us-east-1.
And it might vary based on different, different regions,
but if we get a idea about what is the costing,
accordingly how we want to create it and then use it,
we get a fair idea, right?
So that's the reason.
So per day,
if we keep running this control plan continuously,
then it is going to be $2.4,
and if we run it for 30 days,
then it is going to end up with $72.
So, which is not good if you run continuously,
and then delay it, and then leave it open, right?
So that's the reason when we are learning
as part of this course, then we need to quickly delete
and then recreate whenever we are using it.
So in our next section we are going to do that,
means like how you are going to delete your cluster
and then how you are going to again recreate it,
again you can follow the same steps of whatever
in our previous section, but the whole idea is,
you need to whenever you are working on it, create it,
and then whenever you are not working on it, clear it.
So that is the good option.
So this is about the cluster pricing,
and worker node pricing if we take,
one T3-medium server itself, we will end up
with $30 per month, if we continuously run it,
and these worker nodes are running in the Kubernetes, right?
So there is something called,
they cannot be stopped,
only you can delete your node group
and then your T3-medium servers will be terminated.
But you cannot stop the instances
like regular EC2 instances, like stop and then start.
So, if you take five days to complete this course,
and if you run one EKS cluster and two T3-medium servers,
already you'll end up with $25.
If it is full day it is running,
it's like five days X 24 hours it runs,
it pays approximately around $25.
So considering all these cases,
we need to ensure that how we are going to plan, right?
So if it is an organization-related account
and then you are working for some organization,
and their account you're using, that's fine.
But whenever you're trying to use your own accounts,
then you should be very careful about the pricing,
even if you're using the Fargate Profile also,
it has a dedicated pricing information here,
you can refer.
So two important points here is,
if you're using your personal account,
then ensure you delete and recreate clusters
and worker nodes, as and when needed.
In our next step, we'll see that.
And important note two is, we cannot stop EC2 instances
which are in Kubernetes cluster
unlike other EC2 instances.
So we need to delete the worker nodes or node group
if we are not using it during our learning process, okay?
So that's about it.
So in our next lecture we are going to see
how we are going to delete the EKS cluster, right?
Until then, bye bye, thank you.